Locally Nameless Tutorial
-------------------------

Tutorial location: https://github.com/plclub/metalib/tree/master/Stlc 

Pre-class instructions: Please install metalib, read over the tutorial
material and send me questions before class. You don't need to to the
exercises --- just identify questions that you want to discuss in depth.


Questions about `Definitions.v` / `Stlc.v`
----------------------

* Why the particular representation of free vars in `var_f`?

* My question is about `open_exp_wrt_exp_rec` in the `Stlc.v` file and what is its
obligation with regard to open nominal variables.  So would 
`open_exp_wrt_exp <{ \x. Y x }> <{ Y }>` cause a capture of Y?

Or is the contract that only locally closed terms can be opened wrt exp?

* I’m also confused about the definition `open_exp_wrt_exp_rec`. I’ve read the
  description above that definition in `Definitions.v`, however I still don’t
  get why we want to do` var_b (n - 1)` when getting at the case `inright _`. I
  don’t know what I’m missing, but can you please clarify this for me?

* I am having a bit of difficulty fully understanding local closure, how does
  the carat `(^)` operator work?

*  Does local namelessness depend on the way substitution is defined on
   locally closed terms?



Questions about `Lec1_full.v`
---------------------------


* What is the definition of `==`/`eq_dec`? What makes it decidable?

* Where is the definition/explanation for `open_exp_wrt_exp`?

* In the Lemma `demo_open`, the left-hand side was `(app (abs (app …..)))` but
  inside had two bounded variables. I was wondering why this is the case
  because `(var_b 0)` seems to not match with any abs.

* The preamble to the `subst_exp_intro` lemma mentions how “opening can be
replaced with variable opening and substitution” — would you mind explaining
how opening in general and variable opening differ?

* Although I understand how one might go about proving this lemma, I am not
  sure I understand the Coq proof for `subst_exp_intro` after looking at the
  solution.
    - What does unfold open do? 
    - What implication does induction on 'e' have? Why does the depth change?

* Can you elaborate on the intuition for why `lc_abs_exists` holds?

* Would it be possible to discuss how the proof of `step_lc_exp2` works? I
wasn’t fully certain when we need to invoke the tactic “pick fresh x for L” in
a proof concerning local closure.

* What exactly is `exists-fresh`?


Questions about `Lec2_full.v`
---------------------------

Q for class: [Lec2.v, weakening] Not so much a question as a request — could
you go over in class why cofinite quantification is needed? I'm finding the
Coq proof state a little difficult to read and I think I'd appreciate seeing
it written out in regular math terms. I think it makes sense up to where the
context in weakening needs to be hypothesized to be equal to two appended
contexts, but then I'm not sure why the cofinite quantification would help
(not having actually done the exercise yet). It's especially mysterious since
it looks like the extra argument `L` in `typing_abs` doesn't actually do
anything for the abstraction aside from being a set that doesn't contain the
abstracted variable. Would it make sense when written down in a derivation
rule, or is this purely an artifact of locally nameless?

Would the proof of weakening be any simpler if you defined a partial order on
contexts (G1 <= G2 iff every x : t in G1 is included in G2) and proved that
the typing relation respects this order?



General questions
-----------------

* Can you elaborate on how locally nameless representations differ from other
  de Bruijn representations? How would the free variables be represented in
  the latter?

* What is the difference between the locally nameless representation and de
  Brujin indices? Definitions.v clarifies that our bound variables are indeed
  an implementation of de Brujin indices, but Lec1.v seems to suggest that
  these are different approaches

* The tutorials went over some of the peculiarities of working with LN
  variable representations when it comes to substitution, progress and
  preservation. Are there analogous peculiarities when you try to work with
  logical relations with LN?

* With the help of a tool like LNGen, what is the main pain point of working
  with LN variable representations?

* What would interpreting this language look like when there are no values of
  the base type? I am curious as interpreting felt like a main motivation for
  still having free variables

* On the topic on variable binding, one peculiar way I’ve seen someone deal
  with it is by introducing explicit syntax for the structural rules, and
  doing away altogether with variable names.

  I saw Dominic Orchard do it once in a small Haskell file
  (https://gist.github.com/dorchard/aeec2274dcd4c9c7233e5c39d86343a3). Essentially
  looks like this…

  You would represent (\x.\y.x) as (\lam.\lam.weakening(var)).
  You would represent (\x.\y.y) as (\lam.\lam.var).

  From what I understand the trick is that by convention the generic “var”
  variable simply refers to the rightmost thing in the context by convention. So
  if you want “var” to refer to anything else you use explicit structural rules
  to move the intended referent in the rightmost place in the context.

  I know you can’t cover all the pros/cons of various approaches but if you
  have time I’ve always been curious about what the pros/cons are for this
  approach. Programming explicitly with the structural rules does seem like a
  complete pain…but perhaps there are some benefits?
  
* For CIS6700, my question is: a lot of the other questions ask about how LN
  compares to de Bruijn representations; can we go over what that is?  Also,
  the lecture mentions that the strategy of only working with closed terms
  breaks down when you start doing compiler optimizations; I don't really
  understand how LN with open fixes this.
  

Project question
----------------

By the way, on the semester project, will we have a project proposal process
or should we try to get started once we find a suitable project? And what is
the recommendation on selecting from the course reading materials or should we
try to pick adjacent material not already included on the syllabus?
i.e. should we worry about coordinating the variety of subjects in the class?
A little more guideline/guidance on the project selection would be
appreciated.
