Announcements
-------------

* Half of you have now signed up for lectures. Rest need to pick
  something. Best if it is similar to or based on your project.  Also plan to
  meet with me the week before your topic to go over your plans.

* Keep talking to me about projects. Should have final idea by Feb 13, but 
  earlier is better

* Let's have a 5 minute break.


Church Rosser Theorem
---------------------

* Overview of proof (board), statement of main lemmas

* Overview of mechanization, ott file

* Walk through key parts of Coq proof, guided by questions

* Discuss variants and extensions
   CR for normalizing languages
   beta-eta conversion

Proof overview
--------------

Overall Goal:  Prove the consistency of beta-conversion

beta-conversion is the reflexive, symmetric, transitive, congruence closure of the beta rule.


      ----------------------------- :: beta
       ( \x. a ) b = b [ x ~> a ] 
     
     
Consistency means that the equivalence relation is non-trivial.  i.e. that
there are two lambda terms that are *not* equal according to this relation.

For example:

       \x. \y. x  /= \x. \y. y

This seems intuitive, but how do we prove that there is *no* derivation that these 
two terms are equal.

Why is this important: 

Church-Turing thesis shows that functions on the natural numbers that are
computable with Turing machines are equivalent to functions that can be
computed in the lambda calculus (using an encoding of natural numbers, see next
week). Beta-conversion gives us a logic for reasoning about lambda-calculus 
functions, but we want to make sure that this logic is nontrivial.

Methodology: 

  (0) Define beta-reduction, a relation like beta-conversion, 
       but lacking closure under symmetry.

  (1) Show that beta (above) has the Church-Rosser property. i.e. 
      that beta-reduction satisfies the diamond property. i.e. 
      if [a] beta-reduces to [b1] and a beta-reduces to [b2] then 
      there is some common term [c], such that [b1] and [b2] both 
      beta reduce to [c].
  
  (2) Show that if two terms are beta-convertible, then they 
      beta-reduce to a common term

  (3) Observe that \x.\y.x and \x.\y.y are normal forms and 
      do not beta-reduce. So they cannot be beta-convertible.
  
Side benefit of beta-reduction: the order of evaluation does not matter. We
will always get the same answer. 

If normal form exists, then all reduction sequences lead to it (eventually).

Related lambda-calculus result: if a normal form exists, then *normal*-order
reduction will find it.


Questions
---------

Main proof and formalization

* Can you please give an overview on how to determine the induction
  hypothesis?

* Could we also just go over the theorems in 3.2 of the book in more depth, in
  particular over their proofs in Coq?
  
* What is the general definition of "compatible"? i.e. why does it refer to
  the single-step reduction here? Why is it important to state these rules
  separate from R?

* What is the notation "λ ⊢ M=N"?
  
Lemma 3.2.2 (if a relation is CR, then so is its transitive closure)

* Can you please explain 3.2.2? I don’t really understand how the diagram can
  prove the lemma

* Would it be possible to discuss how the diagram chase in Barendregt’s proof
  for Lemma 3.2.2 (diamond property) translates to the nested induction in
  `diamond_property_trans_closure`? I had some trouble figuring out what the
  induction hypotheses corresponding to the grid depicted in Figure 3.4 that
  Barendregt refers to.

Lemma 3.2.4 (parallel reduction is closed under various substitutions)

* Could we go over parallel reduction in more detail? Its difference from beta
  reduction is a bit subtle, which makes the theorems in 3.2 hard to reason
  about.

* In Barendregt’s proof of Lemma 3.2.4 for parallel reduction, could we
  discuss the bottom 2 rows in the table below? In the corresponding Coq proof
  (`subst2_parallel`), it seems like the last row for lambda abstractions
  corresponds to the tactic `rewrite_subst_open_hyp` (defined in `tactics.v`),
  although I wasn't sure how this relates to Barendregt's comment of "idem" in
  the table (idempotence?).

Lemma 3.2.6 (parallel reduction satisfies diamond property)

* I understand (from Coq’s point of view) how to get the two subcases in case
  2 of proof 3.2.6. However, I don’t really understand how can we get those
  two cases from the lemma 3.2.5. Can you please explain this part?

* What motivates Barendregt's approach to proving CR? Is there a more naive
  approach that fails? I'm a little confused by Lemma 3.2.7, it refers to a
  fact that is unproven and is not obvious to me.

Extensions and related results

* I know the Church Rosser theorem does not apply to effectful languages
  because the order of effects. Has there been any attempt that you know of to
  formalize a generalization of Church Rosser that does apply?

* Suppose you wanted to prove Church Rosser for a language with more advanced
  features, for example CIC. Does the proof look largely similar?
     
* What kinds of things (besides effects) can break Church-Rosser or 
  Confluence more generally?    
  
* I get the difference in the definition between CR and weak CR, but I don’t
  think I understand the difference of them in terms of application. Can you
  please give some examples on when the two will be different, either
  graphically, or terms?

* Can you please explain how we get the two graphs in 3.1.25? I get the SN
  part, but I don’t get how WCR is being used.
  
* Can you give some more intuition behind 3.1.25 (SN /\ WCR => CR)? Also, I'm
  having trouble figuring out how to interpret the diagrams.

* What is the significance of eta to Barendregt and why is it viewed as a
  contraction? It makes more sense as an expansion to me. (Perhaps related, I
  don't understand what it means to "axiomatize provable equality in the
  extensional lambda calculus".)

NOTE: this is a remark about a discussion from 2.1.

The extensional lambda calculus is beta-conversion plus this rule, called 
extensionality:

          M x = N x
       x not in fv M, N
      ------------------- ext
          M = N
          
Then B shows Theorem (2.1.29) (Curry)
  
    beta-equivalence + ext is the same as beta-eta equivalence

And Theorem (2.1.50) that says that beta-eta equivalence is maximally
consistent in the following way.
    
    If M and N have a normal form, then either M is beta-eta equivalent to N 
    or the theory of beta-eta-equivalence plus M = N is inconsistent.

* For today’s class, can we go over the definition of solvable? It looks like
  it uses notation from earlier chapters so I’m having trouble parsing it.

NOTE: solvability is introduced in chapter 2. It is defined as 

   M is solvable iff there exists N1 .. Nn such that M N1 ... Nn =beta \x.x

it is also stated that terms are solvable iff they have a head normal form.
I'm not planning to cover solvability in class tomorrow --- I want to focus on
the other parts of the chapter.
