Announcements
-------------

* Two parts today: understanding the definitions and understanding how to do
  the scope preservation proof

de Bruijn's paper
-----------------

* The paper said in Section 2 that "\phi denotes the string and that <\phi> is
  the string." I'm having trouble understanding the distinction it's making
  here between "lingual" and "metalingual" symbols, and why it matters?
  
* What do we gain from the distinction between a symbol and the same symbol
  enclosed by <>, described in section 2?

* Could we go through the diagram in section 4 (pg. 384) of the De Bruijn
  paper? I see how the “reference depth” mentioned corresponds to our
  intuitive understanding of De Bruijn indices, although I wasn’t sure how
  this fits into the rest of the diagram.

* In Section 6, I don't follow the reasoning behind attaching ...y3,y2,y1 to
  each NF expression Σi. It seems intuitively and from the text that this
  would result in each De Brujin index in Ω that corresponds to free variable
  xi now correspond to free variable yi in the substituted expression Γ, but
  why?

* How to interpret the indices of free variables? It seems useful when opening
  subterms, but I am unsure of what the intuition is in open terms

* Do debruijn indicies still work when typing contexts are trees rather than
  lists, like with bunched systems? The binding sites are still ordered the
  same way, but the indices no longer work as pointers into the context when
  using them for type lookups.

Formalization
------------

* When looking over the Agda file, I was very confused about the comment that
  mentions turning off termination checking. I thought that you should be able
  to define the debruijn opening and substitution functions structurally
  recursively. Am I wrong, and if I'm not, why would we define it in a way
  that is not structurally recursive.

* Could we discuss the role that Agda’s coinductive types play in the tutorial
  and how they differ from inductive types in Coq?

* The proofs for scope preservation are written in terms of the Nat -> Nat
  representation of substitution and renaming. I am curious how difficult it
  would be to either prove that the representation is isomorphic to the
  terminating one using streams, and so its scope preservation impies the
  other's, or to prove the scope preservation of the terminating one using
  streams directly.

* Is there a reason why one would prefer the function encoding over the stream
  encoding? Autosubst2 seems to use the function encoded flavor of de bruijn
  indices instead of coinductive streams. I wonder if that's simply because
  coinduction tends to be difficult in coq.
