* Today is deadline for project decisions. I think all groups are settled, but let's double check.

* Don't forget to send questions about every lecture. 

Question Leaderboard:

Cassia
Jessica
Ernest
Lucas
Emma
Gary
Zed
Nick
Arnav
Jon
Joe
Yiyun
Joey


Questions
---------

How does it work?

* Can we go over how this judgement makes sense without knowing what the term is
  or where A is in Gamma? I'm getting a bit lost with the notation.

`_ : ∀ {Γ A}
    → Γ ∋ A
      -----
    → Γ ⊢ A

* I understand the definition of lookup. However I am a little bit unsure
  about the arguments during the proof stage. Can you please clarify why
  those arguments are what they are? Same question applies to count and other
  functions in general.

* Just to make sure I understand why lookup is used? Is it functioning the
  same way as finite map in software foundations.

* Could we discuss the difference between `ext` and `exts`? I know that `ext`
  is used to map variables in one context to variables in another, whereas
  `exts` is used to map variables to terms, although I wasn’t fully sure how
  the latter is useful for defining substitution.

* Can we walk through working with one proof involving equational reasoning
  in Agda in detail? Some basic things such as how to work with `steps` or
  `≡` (and by extension, rewriting) are still not obvious to me.

* Can you explain the few eval examples? I don’t quite understand a few syntax
  (…, done, step, ...)


Does intrinsic typing work?

* For writing small examples, I could see how needing to use proofs by
  reflection might be an unwieldy complication to add to certain functions
  like #_ (which now needs proof of the index being in bounds) because of
  intrinsically typed representation of de Brujin indices, but this seems like
  a small loss for the overall proving of properties (as the chapter
  showcases). Are there scenarios where proving something would be more
  annoying because of an intrinsically typed representation?

* After reading the intrinsically typed STLC chapter, I was wondering to what
  extent this approach scales beyond STLC. Are there any common language
  features that are easy to deal with either on pen and paper or in an
  extrinsic representation that are particularly difficult with intrinsic
  representations?
  
* Is there any advantage in defining and proving progress / preservation in
  agda over coq? A more general question would be what is agda’s strength?

* Does this approach work just as well in Coq (possibly with Equations)? If
  not, where does it break down?

* In the PLFA chapter, the authors discuss how intrinsic typing has many
  benefits over extrinsic typing (eg. fewer lines of code required, and how
  intrinsic typing ensures that we prove type preservation whenever we
  introduce new operations). Given the many benefits of an intrinsically-typed
  representation, are there any situations where an extrinsic representation
  is still preferable?

* Do debruijn indicies still work when typing contexts are trees rather than
  lists, like with bunched systems? The binding sites are still ordered the
  same way, but the indices no longer work as pointers into the context when
  using them for type lookups.
