Announcements
-------------

Next week: Joe covers termination of STLC in two lectures. Notes on course
syllabus page. Send questions to him via slack.


Bidirectional typing
--------------------

Key idea: syntax directed rules specify a type checking
algorithm.

History: popularized by Pierce and Turner in their paper 
"Local Type Inference"

* Notation comment: 

    up or right -- synthesis: type is an output of 
    the algorithm
 
    G |- a => A

    down or left -- checking: type is an input of the
    algorithm (called inheritance here)
    
    G |- a <= A

* Overview 

- Definition of bidirectional type system

- Proof that type checking is decidable 
  (i.e. synthesize/inherit definitions)
  These two functions define an algorithm for type checking.

- Translation from derivations to intrinsically typed representation

Questions:
----------

Notation:
  
* I’m a little bit confused on the down arrow/ up arrow case for the typing
  judgements. Can you please explain this a little bit?

* Coquld we go over what the notation `Γ ⊢ (M ↑) ↓ B` means in the 
  conclusion of `switch`? I was confused by the simultaneous presence of the
  up and down arrows.  

What are constructors/destructors? Where do the rules come from?

* Can we please go over the definitions of deconstructor / constructor and
  main term / side term? For example, there's an explanation in the paragraph
  starting with "Terms that deconstruct a value" about why applications are
  typed via synthesis and case terms via inference, but I'm having trouble
  following it.

* Could we go over some examples of what the authors mean when they say
  “destructors” and “constructors” in the “Synthesising and inheriting types”
  section? (Are the latter the same as constructors for ADTs?) I had trouble
  understanding how the two judgements for synthesising & inheriting types
  work under the hood.

Type checking algorithm:

* It would be helpful to go over the proofs for synthesize / inherit in class,
  these are a little meaty.

  While I understand that this is actually how Agda infers types of programs,
  the approach still seems a little weird to me -- we are already starting
  with representations that are fairly close to the intrinsically typed
  representation (and it is even shown how it is easy to use erasure to get
  it). Since this is more of a practical algorithm over, I'm curious what the
  work required (especially in Agda) would be to go from a raw Agda (or other)
  source code file to the representation of terms / judgements that the
  algorithm is described over

* Can you also explain the part of “decide whether two types are equal”? I’m
  not too familiar with the notations here.

* For the Erasure section. It seems we are converting the synthesize and
  inheritance notation on this chapter to the notation in DB chapter. Would we
  able to use this to essentially prove the equivalence of the two typing
  syntax.

* Why do the two parts decidability of synthesis and inheritance correspond to
  soundness and completeness? Shouldn't soundness and completeness be with
  respect to the original inference rules? It seems like it could be the case
  that we have a type-synthed or type-checked term that doesn't actually have
  a typing derivation, or that a well-typed term could be
  unsynthable/uncheckable (the negative case), if our synth/check
  specification is wrong.


Big picture:

* Besides the fact that the synthesize and inheritance extension of the typing
  system makes the terms less “obtrusive decora[tive]”, is there any other
  benefit of describing the types of terms in this way (e.g. will this make
  proving things easier?)


* Are there any similar formalizations of other type inference algorithms like Hindley-Milner?

* Could you talk a little about the relationship between bidirectional
typechecking and constraint solving? I wonder if we are already at the stage
where one can first design a bidirectional typechecker and then construct a
corresponding system equipped with constraint solving through a specific
methodology or if there's more to it that varies for each system.
